      FMT is Free Software from Mark Kimes
      ====================================

FMT is the FM/2 Tiny Textmode file manager, for use on those occasions
when you have to boot to a text-only OS/2 command prompt.  Its footprint
(size and memory usage) is very small, so it can easily be run from
diskette.  Multi-file operations are multithreaded, so you don't have to
wait on the program while it's doing work that may take considerable
time.  FMT is page tuned, which means it uses even less memory and loads
even faster than just looking at the size of the program might lead you
to believe.

This document is mercifully brief because the online help covers most
topics.  Besides, the program is intentionally very simple to make it
easy to use -- you'll only need it when disaster has struck and PM is
unavailable, after all!

You can get command line help and version information for FMT by typing
"FMT /?" and then pressing the Enter (or Return) key.  Usage help is
available online by pressing the F1 key.  This simply displays a
scrollable file called "FMTHLP.TXT", which can be customized or examined
independently of FMT with a text editor or viewer, from the directory
holding FMT.EXE.  I recommend you take the time to read through this
help one time -- no need to memorize everything, just familiarize
yourself with what's available so you know to look later if you need a
particular function.

FMT can be customized somewhat using a plain text configuration file
named "FMT.CFG".  You can create one of these files by pressing Shift+F2
while running FMT -- this saves the current state of the program.  You
can then edit the file with a standard text editor, if desired.  FMT
looks for this file in the same directory that contained the executable.

FMT can be run in any screen mode you can muster in a windowed or full
screen session, up to 160 characters wide (see SMODE in the FM/2
Utilities for an easy way to list and use alternate screen modes --
43x132 is nice if you have a big monitor).

In the archive are two .CMD files that you might find useful.  FMTCD.CMD
can be used to allow FMT to alter the default directory after FMT is
done running to be whatever it is when you exit the program.  IOW, it'll
act like an enhanced CD command.  FMTRD.CMD can be used to make FMT act
like a simple viewer (no file management) -- it will just view whatever
file you give it on the command line, and the program will end when you
quit the viewer.  Both of these .CMD files should be edited by you to
replace the drive and path to certain files with what you're actually
using on your system (probably A:\).  There's a note in the comments of
the .CMD files to explain.  They probably won't work for you without
this edit, but relax, it's easy, there's not even any REXX involved. You
don't _have_ to use the .CMD files -- you can just type FMT.  They're
just there to make things easier and more flexible for you.

FMT does NOT contain all the options and power of FM/2.  It's designed
for the purpose stated in the first paragraph above, not as a general
purpose file manager for all occasions.


hec@hectorplasmic.com
